[CHA-5814] athena docs (#320)
chalk-ai/docs: athena.mdx

---
title: AWS Athena
description: Integrate with Athena
published: true
---

import { AddAthenaIntegration } from '@/components/shared/athena';
import { getNamedIntegrationText } from "@/components/NamedIntegration";

---

> Chalk supports [AWS Athena](https://aws.amazon.com/athena/) as a [SQL source](/docs/sql). This allows users to load data from

Reviewer: suggestion to write this in the second person pov like the rest of this article

Reviewer 2: I actually think second person pov is a bit informal. Like I think we should limit phrases like "you can" vs "you should" (where we include the explicit "you" )because it can be a little plain and blunt, in favor of "this can" or "be aware" or even "Add this line of code"

Author: (choosing to do second person for now because the rest of our datasource docs talk in second person: may be worth re-evaluating if that's right though)

> their AWS Glue and other AWS data sources (Hive, DocumentDB, Iceberg, etc.) directly into Chalk features.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
AWS Glue and other AWS data sources (Hive, DocumentDB, Iceberg, etc.) directly into Chalk features.
```

## Adding Athena

In the settings page, you'll find a form for adding your credentials. Note that we will perform data unload operations
to the provided staging directory in S3: these intermediate results will appear under the `chalk-unload` folder.

> <AddAthenaIntegration onSubmit={(e) => e.preventDefault()} />

Reviewer: 👀 what's the default you're preventing?

Author: basically all the `AddXYZIntegration` have this form event handler as an arg (maybe because this used to be used for the actual datasource creation). Probably it is not necessary

Reviewer: ah ok, no worries then. I can take a look :)

## Single Integration

> Add your Athena data source in a Python file and give it a `name`. This line is required for all Athen

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add your Athena data source in a Python file and give it a `name`. This line is required for all Athena
```

> Add your Athena data source in a Python file and give it a `name`. This line is required for all Athen

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Add your Athena data source in a Python file as a `AthenaSource()` with a given `name`. This is required for all Athen
```

integrations. In this file, we'll also define a `User` feature class with a `transaction_volume` feature which will be
resolved with Athena.

If you have only one Athena connection that you'd like
to add to Chalk, you do not need to specify any arguments
to construct the source in your code.

```py
from chalk.features import features
from chalk.sql import AthenaSource

athena_source = AthenaSource()

@features
class User:
    id: str
    transaction_volume: float
```

> ## Multiple Integrations

Reviewer 2: I think it is confusing to give the instructions for multiple integrations in the single integration header, before describing single integrations

Author: sorry i'm a little confused by this comment: both single and multiple integrations are h2, and the single integration appears above
